[Docs] Include more information in the "controlling generation" doc (#2434)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/using-diffusers/controlling_generation.mdx

Unless otherwise mentioned, these are techniques that work with existing models and don't require their own weights.

1. [Instruct Pix2Pix](#instruct-pix2pix)
2. [Pix2Pix Zero](#pix2pixzero)
3. [Attend and Excite](#attend-and-excite)
4. [Semantic Guidance](#semantic-guidance)
5. [Self-attention Guidance](#self-attention-guidance)
6. [Depth2Image](#depth2image)
7. [MultiDiffusion Panorama](#multidiffusion-panorama)
8. [DreamBooth](#dreambooth)
9. [Textual Inversion](#textual-inversion)

## Instruct Pix2Pix

[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09800)

> [Instruct Pix2Pix](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix) is fine-tuned from stable diffusion to support editing input images. It takes as input an image with a prompt describing an edit, and it outputs the edited image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Instruct Pix2Pix](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix) is fine-tuned from stable diffusion to support editing input images. It takes as inputs an image and a prompt describing an edit, and it outputs the edited image. 
```

> Instruct Pix2Pix has been trained to work explicitly well with [instructGPT](https://openai.com/blog/instruction-following/-like prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instruct Pix2Pix has been explicitly trained to work well with [InstructGPT](https://openai.com/blog/instruction-following/)-like prompts.
```

See [here](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix) for more information on how to use it.

## Pix2Pix Zero

[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.03027)

> [Pix2Pix Zero](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) allows modifying an image from one concept to another while preserving general image semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pix2Pix Zero](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) allows modifying an image so that one concept or subject is translated to another one while preserving general image semantics.
```

The denoising process is guided from one conceptual embedding towards another conceptual embedding. The intermediate latents are optimized during the denoising process to push the attention maps towards reference attention maps. The reference attention maps are from the denoising process of the input image and are used to encourage semantic preservation.

Pix2Pix Zero can be used both to edit synthetic images as well as real images.
- To edit synthetic images, one first generates an image given a caption.

> Next, for a concept of the caption that shall be edited as well as the new target concept one generates image captions (e.g., with a model like [Flan-T5](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/flan-t5)). Then, "mean" prompt embeddings for both the source and target concepts are created via the text encoder. Finally, the pix2pix-zero algorithm is used to edit the synthetic image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we generate image captions for the concept that shall be edited and for the new target concept. We can use a model like [Flan-T5](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/flan-t5) for this purpose. Then, "mean" prompt embeddings for both the source and target concepts are created via the text encoder. Finally, the pix2pix-zero algorithm is used to edit the synthetic image.
```

<Tip>

Pix2Pix Zero is the first model that allows "zero-shot" image editing. This means that the model 
can edit an image in less than a minute on a consumer GPU as shown [here](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero#usage-example)

</Tip>

As mentioned above, Pix2Pix Zero includes optimizing the latents (and not any of the UNet, VAE, or the text encoder) to steer the generation toward a specific concept. This means that the overall
pipeline might require more memory than a standard [StableDiffusionPipeline](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img).

See [here](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) for more information on how to use it.

## Attend and Excite

[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.13826)

[Attend and Excite](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/attend_and_excite) allows subjects in the prompt to be faithfully represented in the final image. 

> A set of token indices are given as input, corresponding to the subjects in the prompt that need to be present in the image. During denoising, each token index is insured to have above a minimum attention threshold for at least one patch of the image. The intermediate latents are iteratively optimized during the denoising process to strengthen the attention of the most neglected subject token until the attention threshold is passed for all subject tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A set of token indices are given as input, corresponding to the subjects in the prompt that need to be present in the image. During denoising, each token index is guaranteed to have a minimum attention threshold for at least one patch of the image. The intermediate latents are iteratively optimized during the denoising process to strengthen the attention of the most neglected subject token until the attention threshold is passed for all subject tokens.
```

See [here](../api/pipelines/semantic_stable_diffusion) for more information on how to use it.

## Self-attention Guidance (SAG)

[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.00939)

[Self-attention Guidance](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/self_attention_guidance) improves the general quality of images.

SAG provides guidance from predictions not conditioned on high-frequency details to fully conditioned images. The high frequency details are extracted out of the UNet self-attention maps.

See [here](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/self_attention_guidance) for more information on how to use it.

## Depth2Image

[Project](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth)

[Depth2Image](../pipelines/stable_diffusion_2#depthtoimage) is fine-tuned from Stable Diffusion to better preserve semantics for text guided image variation. 

It conditions on a monocular depth estimate of the original image.

See [here](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2#depthtoimage) for more information on how to use it.

<Tip>

An important distinction between methods like InstructPix2Pix and Pix2Pix Zero is that the former

> involves fine-tuning the pre-trained weights while the latter does not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
involves fine-tuning the pre-trained weights while the latter does not. This means that you can
apply Pix2Pix Zero to any of the available Stable Diffusion models.
```

</Tip>

## MultiDiffusion Panorama

[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.08113)

> MultiDiffusion defines a new generation process over a pre-trained diffusion model. This process binds together multiple diffusion generation processes can be readily applied to generate high quality and diverse images that adhere to user-provided controls, such as desired aspect ratio (e.g., panorama), and spatial guiding signals, ranging from tight segmentation masks to bounding boxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiDiffusion defines a new generation process over a pre-trained diffusion model. This process binds together multiple diffusion generation methods that can be readily applied to generate high quality and diverse images. Results adhere to user-provided controls, such as desired aspect ratio (e.g., panorama), and spatial guiding signals, ranging from tight segmentation masks to bounding boxes.
```

Reviewer: (Question: can our pipeline be used for segmentation or just panorama?)

Author: Not yet. Cc: @omerbt

[MultiDiffusion Panorama](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/panorama) allows to generate high-quality images at arbitrary aspect ratios (e.g., panoramas).

See [here](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/panorama) for more information on how to use it to generate panoramic images.

> ## Fine-tuning methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fine-tuning your own models
```

> In addition to pre-trained models, Diffusers has training scripts for fine-tuning models on user provided data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to pre-trained models, Diffusers has training scripts for fine-tuning models on user-provided data.
```
